# Lab Exercises for Chapter 2 - Oracle 11g PLSQL Programming Text Book

Lab Exercises for Chapter 2

Questions 1 - 10 of the Hands-On Assignments in the Oracle 11g PLSQL Programming Text Book. Refer to your textbook for each assignments details.

- Assignment 2-1: Using Scalar Variables
- Assignment 2-2: Creating a Flowchart
- Assignment 2-3: Using IF Statements
- Assignment 2-4: Using CASE Statements
- Assignment 2-5: Using a Boolean Variable
- Assignment 2-6: Using Looping Statements
- Assignment 2-7: Creating a Flowchart
- Assignment 2-8: Using IF Statements
- Assignment 2-9: Using a FOR Loop
- Assignment 2-10: Using a Basic Loop

## Hands-On Assignments

To determine the exact name of fields used in the tables for these exercises, refer to the tables in the
JustLee Books database, or use the DESCRIBE tablename command to view the table’s structure.

1. Display a list of all data contained in the BOOKS table.
2. List the title only of all books available in inventory, using the BOOKS table.
3. List the title and publication date for each book in the BOOKS table. Use the column heading
“Publication Date” for the Pubdate field.
4. List the customer number for each customer in the CUSTOMERS table, along with the city
and state in which the customer lives.
5. Create a list containing the publisher’s name, the person usually contacted, and the publisher’s telephone number. Rename the contact column “Contact Person” in the displayed
results. (Hint: Use the PUBLISHER table.)
6. Determine which categories are represented in the current book inventory. List each
category only once.
7. List the customer number from the ORDERS table for each customer who has placed an
order with the bookstore. List each customer number only once.
8. Create a list of each book title stored in the BOOKS table and the category in which each
book belongs. Reverse the sequence of the columns so that the category of each book is
listed first.
9. Create a list of authors that displays the last name followed by the first name for each author.
The last names and first names should be separated by a comma and a blank space.
10. List all information for each order item. Include an item total, which can be calculated by multiplying the Quantity and Paideach columns. Use a column alias for the calculated value to
show the heading “Item Total” in the output.

### Advanced Challenge

The management of JustLee Books has submitted two requests. The first is for a mailing list of all
customers stored in the CUSTOMERS table. The second is for a list of the percentage of profit
generated by each book in the BOOKS table. The requests are as follows:

1. Create a mailing list from the CUSTOMERS table. The mailing list should display the name,
address, city, state, and zip code for each customer. Each customer’s name should be listed
in order of last name followed by first name, separated with a comma, and have the column
header “Name.” The city and state should be listed as one column of output, with the values
separated by a comma and the column header “Location.”
2. To determine the percentage of profit for a particular item, subtract the item’s cost from the
retail price to calculate the dollar amount of profit, and then divide the profit by the item’s cost.
The solution is then multiplied by 100 to determine the profit percentage for each book. Use
a SELECT statement to display each book’s title and percentage of profit. For the column
displaying the percentage markup, use “Profit %” as the column heading.
Required: Determine the SQL statements needed to perform the two required tasks. Each statement should be tested to ensure its validity. Submit documentation of the commands and their
results, using the format specified by your instructor.

## Case Study: City Jail

The case study resumes in Chapter 3.
